[MUSIC]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Thank you again, everyone.
Good afternoon.
Good morning, maybe.
Still good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning.
So now, we talk a little bit about the shila
of six paramatas with this.
So I think I won't read this all because of my actions.
I don't know if you will understand what I'm reading,
even though maybe you're looking in the book.
But I will talk about the six paramatas,
and then talk about the shila.
And then you ask me questions, and then I
try to answer whatever I can.
So that's how we follow that.
And now, generally speaking about the shila.
Shila is a Sanskrit word and in English,
many times translated as moralities.
And also, it can be a synonym as morality, or conduct,
or ethics.
So all I believe is very synonyms.
And generally, in the Buddha's teaching,
our view of the Buddha's teaching,
when you take the bodhicata, when you bodhicata,
and bodhicata is love and compassion,
and wisdom that combined together is
known as bodhicata in Sanskrit, that Sanskrit word.
And it's translated into English as mind of enlightenment,
mind of enlightenment.
So what is mind of enlightenment?
It's mind of enlightenment, compassion, loving kindness,
wisdom, and thinking of all living beings
how to benefit, help to the beings, everyone.
That thought, at the same time, order to benefit to all beings,
but I like to become also more enlightened because in order
to make the professional way to help to the others,
you have to be very equipped to yourself.
You have to be strong in order to be strong.
That means you're not kind of obscured and disturbed
by the emotions.
And for that reason, I like to become the enlightenment
or become the Buddha so that I can help all the living beings.
So for that reason, what the Buddha's teaching says,
bodhicata means has two aspects.
By comparison, a loving kindness, thought,
kind of looking, projecting that to all the living beings
without any discrimination.
By wisdom, you're projecting to how
can make more powerful, more effectively,
and that has become Buddha.
Then I can effectively benefit it.
So by the wisdom, looking to the enlightenment
and by the comparison of love, looking
to all the living beings.
So then, because of combination of that truth, all the love
and the compassion and wisdom, then you
develop the bodhicata.
So you develop the bodhicata.
And bodhicata is now what actually we all have.
We all have.
We all have love.
We all have compassion.
We all have wisdom.
It's not something we don't have.
But this developing means we're opening that love
and compassion and wisdom to all the living beings.
Now, a prison time, our love and compassion is kind of limited.
We have kind of restricted in a way.
Way is not completely open.
But this time, when you take the bodhicata,
really you open your heart and opening the wisdom,
compassion, love to all living beings
without any discrimination.
That attitude, that openness, feeling,
openness, thought is known as bodhicata, bodhicata.
So once you develop or when you really
activate that quality in the heart and mind,
how are we going to activate that?
How now are we going to carry that on?
That is just a thought.
Now, this thought, we're going to activate that
through the four boundless.
You all know.
Boundless compassion, boundless of loving kindness,
boundless of joy, and boundless of equanimity or rejoice.
This four boundless.
Four boundless, that means all the living beings.
You are boundless love to all living beings.
Boundless compassion to all the living beings.
Boundless joy and rejoice to all living beings.
And you also have to balance it.
Balance it.
And as well as without discrimination.
That is called boundless of equanimity.
That upholds love and compassion in what the bodhicata call it.
You hold that.
Now you activate that strongly in the heart and mind.
Mind.
Now, when that comes to the action,
how to activate that benefit to the others,
then in the Buddha's teaching, said six paramatas.
Six paramatas.
Six paramatas are the first six paramatas.
Again, paramata is Sanskrit word.
Word, and I think you all know, basically.
So, but, but paramata means that will lead beyond.
Paramata is Sanskrit means, will lead beyond.
What that means?
Beyond the duality.
Beyond, beyond the regimented attitude of the self-important.
It go beyond, completely.
And then also, it means beyond, beyond samsara.
This well, those are, what, therefore, these six paramatas,
the six of these, will lead us beyond the dualities.
Beyond the samsara.
It will take over.
Because now you have the comparison of love,
or the poor boundless in the heart and mind so strongly.
And now, you're activating that with this, through these six
different techniques of paramatas.
And those six paramatas, you all start, you know,
the generalities, morality, or shila.
We translate it in Sanskrit.
Sanskrit, the shila, and then patience, and joyful effort,
and concentrations, and the vestiges.
Those Sanskrit words are basically not necessarily,
I think, important, but if you like to heard this,
I'm sure it's here, too.
Too, and the generalities is in Sanskrit
called the dhana, dhana paramatas.
And morality is known as Sanskrit shila paramatas.
The patient paramata is known as in Sanskrit chanting
paramatas.
And then joyful effort paramata is known
as in Sanskrit Bria paramatas.
And then in the concentration paramata
is known as in Sanskrit dhyana paramatas.
And then in the wisdom paramata is known as in Sanskrit,
then panda paramatas.
So those are six paramatas.
And now these six paramatas are, are, I guess, an overview.
Of course, you all know, started this.
You all know this.
But overviewing these six paramatas, now, these--
what are those?
First, generosity is like giving to the others.
And morality, then.
And shila is the moralities.
When you give things to the others,
generosity is generally great.
But when you give things, you have
to stand also with ethics.
Ethics, you have to have moralities, moralities.
And so when you have the good--
you have the open mind, open heart, and generosity,
you have good ethics.
But then also you need patience.
Patience is what?
Courage and commitment, confidence, not lingering
and not disturbed by the external, any force.
When you do have good generosity, when
you have the good moralities, samsara of the world,
there's a lot of troubles.
Even you're doing really so good,
still maybe it's not going to accept as it's good.
Your open heart, your open mind, not
going to maybe accept a rumor as that's so pure.
For that reason, we need also patience, courage,
and commitment.
Patience means what?
In another world, in Sanskrit, the great master,
Shanti Deva said, in the famous teaching,
what is the nature of the patient, not disturbed?
Not disturbed.
That is the nature of that.
So no matter whatever it is, you're not disturbed.
That is patience, the essence of patience.
And then to keep up this, we need joyful effort.
Effort, but joy, joy of generosity, joy of morality,
and joy of the patience.
It's not something that we're drugging and overloaded
and we're doing this pathetically, we're doing this.
We're doing this with full of vision, goal,
something important, not just a sub-centered mind,
kind of thinking, really thinking to all living beings.
How wonderful, how beautiful, how special.
For that reason, great master Shanti Deva said,
also in his teaching, said, all these so many things,
so many people are doing just so many things in the world.
In summertime, with summer heat, in the wintertime,
with winter cold, they are nightly walking.
They can bear that cold just for their own purposes.
I'm doing this for all living beings.
Really, my project is to help all living beings.
Why I cannot bear?
Why I should not have the joy?
You're not just for yourself.
You're for all the living beings.
This is a big vision, big goal, big result, big benefit to you
and to the everyone.
Oh, this is like win-win situations.
Truly, for that reason, why I should not have the joy?
Why I should not have the aspirations?
Your heart is good, your mind is good, your action is good,
your object is good, and we will be good.
For that reason, joyful effort.
Joyful effort is what the great Master Shanti Deva said.
Said, when you have the joy, and we have the joy,
whatever activity is, then it comes so easy,
and we don't have the joy.
What his opponent is known as laziness.
Laziness will take over because lack of joy,
lack of appreciation.
And right now, you have the beautiful generosity,
morality, and patience, joyful effort.
Now, what are all those?
Those are one way, all kind of more outreaching qualities,
in a way, or particularly the first three.
Generacy, morality, patience is more outreaching, more outer.
Now that this fifth paramata is directly dealing with the mind.
Mind is the most powerful, important.
Even though it's unseen, we can't see,
nobody can really see this mind.
But this unseen, this mind is controlling
about every situation, every circumstances, everything.
So therefore, the Yarn, Dayan paramata,
is directly dealing with our own, this invisible mind.
Mind, and mind is restless.
Mind is running all the time.
You know, we know, we started this.
And even when we're sitting down on the cushion,
where we're kind of physically very calm and peaceful,
maybe our mind is running.
Money, that's how the mind is.
Always, Dayan means calm and peaceful,
abiding in its own natural state.
The mind, mind resides, abiding in its own sport.
That explains Dayan.
And then, the wisdom.
Wisdom means understanding, knowing exactly where things are.
Also, great master was called Shanti Deva said,
what is Dayan?
Dayan means not just distracted.
That is really the meaning of Dayan, or the concentration,
not distracted.
And then, the wisdom.
The wisdom is knowing exactly as it is.
Nothing overstated, understood where things are.
Where things are on the mundane level,
may where things are beyond the mundane or behind the scene.
Exactly as it is.
Not kind of cover up, not making stories, this and that things.
Or not imagination, this and that.
But exactly as it is.
Those are the Buddhism was called.
The relative truth and absolute truth.
Seeing things exactly as an absolute truth,
seeing things exactly as an absolute truth.
So that is the kind of generally overview
of the six parabhas.
Now six parabhas, entirely generally Buddha teaching,
can be summarized into three practices.
Or again, to summarize this.
Those are known as what?
You all know, three trainings.
Morality, and concentration, and wisdoms.
Those are the three trainings.
Entire the Buddha practices.
Teachers can be summarized into these three.
So now, if we summarize this all six parabhas,
into three, how we do this?
Force three.
Generously, morality, patience, all
can be summarized into moralities.
Moralities and peace is concentration,
and that is the concentration, and then wisdoms,
and that is wisdoms, so three.
Morality, concentration, and wisdoms.
And what about that joyful effort?
Joyful effort is support to all of them.
Joyful need, we need joyful effort for the morality.
We need joyful effort for the concentration.
We need joyful effort for the wisdoms.
So that is just the kind of overview
of the six parabhas.
Six parabhas.
And now, if you have some questions, I will discuss,
or maybe you're talking about the shilas now.
About the shila.
Shila is now about the six parabhas.
Second is shila parabhas.
Shila means, as it was already said, is a conduct,
is a morality, is ethics.
But morality and conduct or ethics,
whatever we use the terminology, this is so important.
And again, all six parabhas are so important.
But morality is really so important.
But you heard, for example, meditation.
Meditation, when we meditate, we need moralities.
Morality, without the moralities, we won't go far.
For that reason, Grand Master Nagarjuna said,
in his letter to a friend, he said,
morality is like ground, ground, like earth.
Morality is like earth, because earth
is the best of everything, everyone, whether we move
or whether we don't move, or movable, immovable.
Everyone is relying on the earth.
Similarly, morality is the best of everything.
All the good realization, good achievement, good fulfillment
based upon the moralities, even you have the good wisdom,
good concentrations, we don't have the good morality.
It's falling apart.
It will fall apart.
It will go away.
It will really lose the ground.
Therefore, morality is so important.
I mean, this is so important.
For that reason, what?
In Sanskrit, known as Shila.
Shila can be translated as cool.
When you have the Shila, and also in English, too, I think,
when you have morality, you are a cool guy.
Yeah, really, you're a cool guy.
That person is a gentleman.
That person is a gentle lady.
If you don't have the morality, no matter
how much you're educated, how much you're rich,
how much you're powerful, you are not gentle.
You're not cool.
Cool.
Because for Shila, Sanskrit word translated into--
I mean, it has meaning, coolness.
Really, it is cool.
For that reason, everybody are teaching, explaining.
Of course, you have to have the wisdom.
You have to have the understanding.
You have to do the meditation.
But if you don't have the moralities, we lost it.
For that reason, Buddha gave the teaching.
For example, in the Vinaya teaching,
there's moralities of the teaching
for the lay practitioners.
How they should be behaved.
This is not just making Buddhism bound by Buddhism.
Kind of restricting.
But how to maintain their identity, quality,
their upkeeping, the goodness.
That was good for them, or for us, for everyone.
That is really guidelines.
Simple upkeeping instructions.
How to maintain beautifully.
Not just maintaining, but how we continue beautifully
to succeed.
Profilment.
And all the way to the Buddhahood.
Enlightenment.
That is the moralities.
Moralities.
So morality is so important.
Morality is then, as I see here too, explaining.
Morality, that in samsara morality.
Which means traditions, rules, regulations, systems
of the contradiction.
Respect and appreciate.
Follow that wherever the contradiction stays.
We should respect and appreciate.
Follow the rules.
All the rules, most of the rules,
are really kind of designed to help, but good for us.
Something that good for you, good for others, to everyone.
Therefore, rules are very important.
That's called the moralities.
If we keep them perfectly, we are then completely beautiful.
Beautiful, what's called?
Beautiful nephew and niece of Uncle Sam's.
[LAUGHTER]
Beautiful nephew, you're really cool.
Then Uncle Sam will be very happy.
Oh, they are really good.
If we don't do that, and Uncle Sam will look at what's called?
On the sideways.
Side eye.
[LAUGHTER]
So therefore, rules and regulations are really good.
In Buddhatic, it's very important.
Respect and appreciate.
Any samsara guidelines, rules, regulations,
that something is benefiting to the other beings
and not hurting.
Not hurting to anyone.
Anyone is good.
It's good with that.
In the dharmas, the rules and regulations.
And then there is so many samayas, so many wows,
so many instructions.
They really have to keep up that.
Oh, this is something that God ourself.
God, G-U-A-R-D. I think God ourself.
God our physical activities.
God our verbal activities.
God our mental activities.
Mental activities from negativities,
from disturbance to me, to one's own self, to the others.
Then God I give all those guidelines.
How to really sustain so beautiful, calm, and peaceful.
If we keep this morality, then it's really good for us
and good for others.
It will become more gentle, more peaceful, more pleasing.
Life will become more rich, more simple, more calm.
And then also just with that feeling, that calling,
it's really become so rich, rich and helpful
to the other beings, according to your capabilities,
or according to readiness for others.
And then that is known as basically morality.
And then morality can be divided.
I'm sure it's mentioned there too.
If we go more kind of detail, detailed morality
in the Buddha teaching, those are known as morality.
That will stop all the negativities.
And morality, that will gather all the virtues.
And morality, that will benefit for all living beings.
So those are three moralities.
Morality, stopping all the negative activities.
And by directly, indirectly, that is one.
And morality, that gathering all the virtues,
all the good things, learn good things,
improve yourself, good things.
And skills, methods that some days benefit to you,
to the others, in the context of the peace and harmony,
we should learn those things, those.
And then morality, that benefit to all living beings,
then help to the others as much as you can.
With gentle, with peaceful, with respectfully,
and help to the others, according your capabilities
and according readiness of the receivers or receives.
And you do help to that.
Those are known as three moralities.
I'm sure it's mentioned there.
So that is my brief overview of the moralities
and the six power methods.
And now, if you have some questions,
I'm really happy to answer as much as I can.
Thank you, thank you.
- I have a question. - He is, yes.
- My question is, of course,
morality starts from the family, right?
- Pardon? - Family.
Morality, you know, you teach children.
- Oh yeah, yeah, of course, yeah.
- That's very good, that is expected.
That is the first school of the mind.
But when you look around the world,
it has not been the part of the school
and college and university.
Why they're done, it is so important,
so why they're not incarcerated.
Morality in the education.
Of course you are talking about ethics
and morality in the workplace.
There's small introduction, you know,
just representation.
But as I feel and everybody feels that
it should be part of the education in the school,
college and university.
Why we have not been able to do that?
- That's true, I think most of the time,
I believe it's due to the really different kind of like,
what's called the habit dependence.
And also due to the kind of like,
some people are not so emphasizing on the moralities.
I mean, some people do that.
That's the way of their habit.
And maybe more emphasizing of the kind of
starting learning things, which is so important that,
but morality, sometimes they kind of ignore.
And many times also practitioners think that,
oh, meditation is so important.
And practicing is kind of like,
practice sitting is so important.
But many times, even practice,
Dharma practicing is not so kind of keen
or thinking of the moralities.
But morality is really so important in Buddhism.
Buddhism, when you don't have the good morality,
I said many times, then it can fall apart.
And then just fall apart.
So therefore morality and the practice goes side by side.
Side by side.
If you keep this two together,
then really its fulfillment really comes so beautifully.
So therefore, so I would say just in the world,
they don't, don't.
And I think it is due to the habitual,
due to the traditions, due to the also maybe
different kind of beliefs and so forth.
And then just kind of they blow it up.
And then they focus more kind of like
starting or more those things in a school,
and which is so important.
But when that happened, and then many times,
I mean, the morality is really good.
I will say.
Yes, yes, please.
Yeah.
Yeah, okay.
- Thank you, Kimball.
Is it possible for us to have good intentions
for lack of morality?
- Yeah, definitely that happened.
That can happen.
I have good intentions.
We have very beautiful intentions.
And then maybe the good morality,
because morality is also based on the nice understanding.
And then you have to also really have to see how,
for example, your intention is good,
but how it is going to work.
You have to be, that is a world code.
Knowing that as much as we can,
that knowledge is called the wisdom.
So morality is guided by the wisdom.
So even you have the good intention, the good things,
but if it's going to benefit, it's work for you,
and work to the others.
All work is good for many ways,
and really always observe it.
And that is really very important.
Yes, yeah, please.
- In the way of the Bodhisattva,
the poem by Sanjay Deva,
he says that when you're generating bodhicitta,
or when you're trying to not let it diminish.
- Wouldn't it?
- In that four line things,
for those without it may be generated.
- Yeah, yeah, bodhi.
- Those who have it may not diminish,
but always be increasing.
He said all three sort of stages,
you have to whip up a sense of urgency.
And many years ago,
I saw Krishnamurti in Switzerland in 1970.
He said if you were in a house that was on fire,
there'd be real urgency to get out.
How do you recommend whipping up
a sense of urgency to practice?
Instead of doing it,
I remember the Dalai Lama was saying,
"We're not supposed to become marshmallows."
How would you recommend whipping up a sense of urgency?
- Of course, urgency generally, the practice is really
practicing that to connect to our heart and mind.
Heart and mind with the context of love and compassion.
Bodhicitta, that's what we're talking.
It is really the most important in our lives.
Our lives, all the activities are important.
But to compare with the bodhicitta,
all the other activities are secondaries.
Really secondaries.
Love and compassion, this worship is so important,
so precious to you and to all the other beings.
So therefore, and life is also,
how long are we going to stay?
We don't know how long.
Well, everything is in our situation.
Well, everything is in our reachable state,
as you this time, make this precious time,
as really is so important.
It's very urgent.
In the teaching series, you see, in the great masters,
you see, do practice and don't wait.
Check now.
Now is the most important, use these opportunities.
Use these opportunities as examples.
If the snake, snake, snake, if snake comes on the lap
of the timid person, timid person,
what that timid person will do?
He's not going to wait until this, get up immediately.
Get up immediately.
So the as snake enter the timid, lap of the timid person,
or the beautiful Miss American catch the fire on her,
what she will do?
She will immediately act something out of that.
In the teaching series, as important and urgent as that,
really said, like that, catching the fire
on the beautiful girls' ladies.
I just said, Miss America, I'm sorry.
I just not said that, but beautiful ladies,
the lady catch the fire on their heads,
or enter the snake in the timid's lap.
That's really said.
It's true.
I mean, look, life is so precious.
Life is so important.
But something that when we leave this world,
we really cultivate the bodhicitta,
we did like do something with the bodhicitta activities,
that something, it makes it happy.
It makes more confidence, more stronger to our self
and to the other beings.
That's what the great master, Shandarachi Shanti,
they were saying too.
Yes.
- Professor Shanti, in our study group,
we've been trying to get a clearer understanding
of the meaning of the word transcendental,
and in this context, like when are paramitas,
regular paramitas, and when are paramitas transcendental?
- Okay.
Actually, this paramata, paramata is Sanskrit word,
I think it's translated into English,
I thought transcendental, itself.
And whatever paramata,
every kind of translated roughly,
exactly as the word paramata,
then I think it means it will take you other shore.
Paramatas, one which will take to the other shore.
So this means that this shore where we are is samsara,
or if I use the word today, duality.
But if you continue practice of these six paramatas,
it will tell you the other shore, shore of nirvana,
or shore of beyond samsara, or dualities.
So that, and what is that?
Actually, how do you do that?
That is actually what in the teachings said,
said when that will become,
when our janarusta will become the transcendental
or the paramata of janarusta or dana paramatas.
When we don't have the grasping,
we don't have the grasping on the subject,
when we don't have the grasping on the object,
we don't have the grasping on the action.
So subject and object action,
when we don't have the grasping,
that is known as then your janarusta practice
is transcendental or the paramata,
your morality is paramata.
Paramata, everything become then paramata.
Until that, that also indicated,
even we do the janarusta,
even though the all is within the frame of dualities,
which is good, this duality,
this duality will lead us beyond the duality.
This is a good remedy in a way,
as I always think that like homopedic systems,
we use the same remedy order to cure that obstacles.
So we're using this, we don't have any other choice,
we use it skillfully with duality to go beyond the dualities.
And when duality, beyond the duality,
then it is transcendental or paramata.
- Thank you. - Yes, please.
- Thank you, Ramesh.
I don't know if very often in our culture,
we would think about doubt as being immoral,
and yet as among the negative emotions mentioned here
as part of an immorality.
Could you talk a little bit about--
- No, generally doubt is not necessarily always negatives.
Doubt has two aspects.
Doubt is, one aspect is aspect of the wisdom, intelligence.
And for that reason, for example,
example in the Buddha's teaching, what is it called?
Studying and contemplations.
When you are contemplating, you can help doubt.
That means you're asking questions.
You're putting inquiry to yourself or to the others
to make sure it is true.
And to make that true, that is aspect is doubt
or that the inquiry thought is good,
is nothing really wrong yet.
But once you establish it,
once you establish the concrete certainty of wisdom,
then doubt is obstacles.
Then it pulls back to you.
Then it brings the unsuccessful.
You won't achieve that.
But during the, for example,
investigation and analyzation, you can have doubt.
Doubt is not really nothing bad.
And then, for example, during our meditation,
during the practices,
if we have started doubt, that will become obstacles.
Because you already established,
you already know the practices,
you already know this,
if we start putting inquiries,
then it's just a delay.
It's another conception.
It's obstacles.
Okay.
Here it is.
- I'm going to change.
Spot will bear me out in this.
I find so much immorality in the world now
compared to when I was a child growing up,
that I can't watch the news or see what's going on
because I am so sad and I am so angry
and I feel so helpless
with the lack of morality in the world right now.
And I know that doubt and anger
and all of this is clinging.
But I'm a small person with a little life
and there's nothing I can do in that world,
I can only practice.
So how can I overcome this judgment
about lack of morality?
And also use my practice to be of benefit.
- No, this is true.
This looks like, I mean, I don't know.
Of course, generally in Surya, in the samsara,
a code of Buddha teaching, I'm sure is true.
Same thing in the samsara days, in all these world,
it's always had a lot of emotions,
a lot of troubles, a lot of just moralities.
Really, this is not just the new.
I think it's always like being like,
I believe that maybe sometimes a little bit more
on the surface, sometimes not too much on the surface,
but it's basically, it's just always like this.
Now it looks like these times are more on the surface.
Can't worry, it's so many,
violence is going all over the world,
or many places, and then violence,
and then also natural disasters are also really erupting.
And then also, all these difficult troubles,
so many things happening one after another, that is true.
This now looks really, can't worry.
So many things.
But I think when this happened,
I think is what we do every can,
can really generate more both each others,
more both each other, more compare.
All this happening according to the Buddha's teaching
is due to the ignorance.
So, ignorance is really to blame.
The ignorance is manipulating to everything,
and then during all this happening,
there's reflecting, there's ignorance in the form,
then of course, in anger, or yellows,
hairdos, or combination, and all the greedy,
and then all these troubles happening.
So therefore, it's really like according to Buddha's teaching,
really as much as we can generate both each other,
and do our prayers, then may that not happen.
As much as this, as our poor, boneless prayers.
May all living beings free from the suffering,
the cause of suffering,
may they be,
(speaks in foreign language)
I mean, they will never be disassociated
from the supreme happiness which is without suffering.
I mean, those poor, boneless prayers,
they do as much as we can.
And our wishing, positive wishing,
positive wishing power is what we can contribute it,
to calm down this.
And we do this,
even maybe you don't see it immediately,
immediately that, but you're making peace.
They say, peace start with you.
Really started from your own home.
Home, and then spread that.
You truly, I mean, whoever do this,
we become peacemakers.
Really peacemaker, we're making peacemaker
very kind of grassroots and practical way.
We can make the peace to everyone immediately as well.
But we started.
That's what our greatest teacher Buddha said,
"Do yourself."
That's it, really.
So I think that's the really,
ending the prayer.
And then of course we can get emotions.
I've said overseeing situation,
all the different news things,
but just really like, also for the joking meditation,
kind of letting it go.
I mean, we can't do anything.
Except to do the prayer,
and kind of make ourselves kind of a little more stronger,
calmer, and peaceful.
If we do that, then really we are doing some good difference.
Okay.
- Thank you very much.
- Thank you.
- It's important.
(audience laughing)
Yes.
- Okay.
I have read about and known many teachers
who have fallen from grace.
Usually misconduct, sexual misconduct.
And these are people who I think
were enlightened masters and beings.
Do we forgive them?
And how do we look to somebody
who is a great teacher and who falls
because of lack of morality?
- I think that is definitely as you said that,
that is true, exactly true.
But I mean, that happened.
I think the teachers also really,
I don't know, I mean,
I think there's according to the Buddha's teaching.
Again, I'm talking with the court of Buddhism,
that all the sentient beings has imperfect.
And all the teachers, they may be great teachers,
but they are not Buddha's enlightened beings.
And therefore, anybody can do mistakes.
And for that reason,
I think it's really forgive and excuse
and learn from that lesson.
Lesson and see how this happened.
Happening and may other teachers
and might include our one's own self
may not fall down in these kind of situations.
May I have always good morality,
good conduct and good both each other.
So wish and pray,
and but excuse and forgive.
And that is known as what?
Again, we generally practice here,
six power matas among the six power matas.
And that is also really when you forgive.
It is a generosity.
It is generosity.
You give forgiveness and it's part of generosity.
Also, it's part of the ignorance that happened.
Feel compassion, improve,
learn from that and then move forward,
not become that, become obstacle
to progress growth of our own developments.
Thank you.
Yes.
- I have a question.
With, is there something kind of like a national karma?
I mean, we have our individual karma,
but sometimes it feels like we're swept up in a tide,
you know, like if our say our country goes to war
or something, we may not believe in that.
I think it's terrible, but somehow we're part of it.
Is there, you know, is there a kind of way
to deal with that or is that the real,
is that just an imagination
or is karma, is it always individual?
- No, this is, of course, karma is a very complex city.
Complex city, according to the Buddha teaching,
which is true, I mean, it's really a complex city,
but however, according to the Buddha teaching,
this is definitely something of karma.
This is called the individual karma
and a group, group karmas, group karmas.
And this is something that we're,
what we're going through in the world
or whatever the suffering we're going to generate.
This is called group karmas.
And how that happened?
According to Buddha's teaching,
because karma or our birth is not this first time
or no, it will be last.
And therefore, each time, many times,
we do guru-blee, also, kind of activity, action together,
and that really known as the group karmas.
And then consequently as a result,
that will come then, sometimes later,
that lifetime or afterward.
And so what we're experiencing,
many times, this can be also a group karma too.
Thank you.
- It's also a question kind of along the lines
of what Mimi was asking about, about doubt.
I also sometimes understood the answer as being,
when you're developing an understanding,
then it's okay to question,
so you can develop that understanding.
But then once you have an understanding
and you get involved in practice,
then you should have confidence, right?
- That's true.
- I have a problem though.
Sometimes doubts continue coming up throughout my practice.
I don't doubt the core teachings of the Buddha,
but sometimes specific explanations,
maybe the philosophical or something that I read in the text.
Part of it could be that when I hear explanations,
maybe the explanation that works for one person
is not the same as the explanation that would work for me,
but it creates instability in my practice.
How do you work with that?
- No, this is, generally this questions or the doubt
about your philosophical systems
or the questions about the philosophical systems.
I think that's really okay.
It's not really obstacle.
But during your practices,
during for half an hour your meditation or practices
or 15 minutes of meditation practices
or whatever you have the time,
don't use that time as questioning
of the philosophical systems.
You have the 24 hours in the day
and this time you're spending half an hour.
That is not the questioning time.
That is the practicing time.
So trying to be wise of our time.
After that, then you can have questions.
It's okay.
You can vote that reason.
Great teacher Buddha said,
"You don't have to accept my word as you say."
You exam, you exam as goldsmith,
exam the gold, burn, cut, rub.
Rub and see the authenticity of the cut.
So you can exam.
But once you during the practices
should not have any questions,
then it's scared in mind.
Scared in mind, the conception is like monkey mind.
It distributes to our meditation.
So really don't.
Trying to, even question thought comes or doubt comes,
I'm not going to.
Now I'm going to practice.
Just really do the practice.
That means practice means you settled.
You settled.
But the contemplation, studying,
contemplation and meditation.
Practice means meditation.
Or meditation means practice.
Then you settled.
Now you're going to develop that.
That really I will say that, that's it.
But then one, for example, also in the practices,
you've been practicing a long time.
Long practice, suddenly something kind of doubt comes.
Suddenly that.
That is then, is called,
in the most determined by the teaching is obstacles.
Then comes it, kind of oh why this and that.
Kind of like, almost like kind of untold
for thing kind of doubt and hesitations.
Or something come up and then,
kind of like practice become shaky.
And that is obstacles.
And I mean that happened, let it go.
Don't analyze of any of those things
and restrain your body together.
Feel more close, connect to the Gharapam or Sambo
or the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Really feel the blessings and reach that,
restrain your confidence and practices.
And that happened many times.
Also in the Buddha teaching said,
and many times those people who practice
ancient time in the caves, in the mountains,
they practiced for many years.
And so going beautiful, all the practices,
so beautiful, nice and wonderful.
And suddenly something came up in the thought
or in the dream or the vision,
vision or this and that thing.
Then kind of like completely that
stent is demolishing that.
And that is obstacles, hindrance.
Hindrance.
That obstacle, hindrance is also
according to Buddha teaching is nothing bad.
Actually it means you're improving,
you're growing, you're dribbling.
And in a way that obstacle, that whatever comes,
it is like, what's called here, growing pains.
You're growing pains.
So you're growing that.
But if you carry by that force,
then it really become the obstacle, really.
Then it will knock down us.
So therefore, restrain the courage,
restrain the commitment, restrain the devotion,
restrain the body, feel closeness to the Buddha
and grab some of our lineage masters
and just embrace that and mingle with that
and then do the good things.
And then we will fly very high and beautiful and relax
and then enjoy the panoramic views.
(audience laughing)
- Okay.
Yes, please.
- Ah yeah, all right, Kampala.
As long as you're on that same of this realm
of train of thought, it struck me that sometimes
when I need to, when it's my time for practice,
I set aside certain days and certain times.
But sometimes I just feel a little distracted
and I say, and when I actually push myself,
I try to and I sit and practice and I have my session
and the kind of things come to my mind
and it kind of fights through my doubts
and I still come up with new awakenings.
Should I trust what my mind comes to?
- (speaking in foreign language)
- I think it's on the same train of thoughts
as the doubts as the gentleman said.
Should I trust that even when I feel a little shaky
and then when I'm on my mat, my cushion,
my mind steadies with whatever I'm coming up with.
Should I trust that?
- No, yeah, you can, because it is practice.
It means when you're sitting down on the cushion,
you're going to practice.
And that means actually whatever.
If you say another word where you say,
you're going to cultivate your positive mind.
That session is cultivating, you dedicated that session
for one hour, half hour, 15 minutes,
is cultivating the positive mind in one way.
So there any thought comes that something is opposite
of a positive, really let that thought goes
and generating more positive thought
among that maybe more compassion, more joy,
more appreciation and just bring that thought.
I mean, we have many reason to be happy in joy,
more graceful, bring those practices.
It's not just a, in a Buddha teaching,
it's not just a one single thing.
It's a variety of the positive and you have to cultivate it
and bring that and reveal our own beauty.
So really just more compassion, more loving kindness,
more joy, more graceful, whatever.
Just feel that power and feel the presence of the Buddhas.
Buddha is sitting right in front of us
with the golden glowing light.
Buddha is full of love, compassion, wisdom,
radiating that light of love and compare it to you
and to all the, how wonderful, how fortunate.
I'm the one of the beautiful,
fortunate beings on this planet.
Really feel that, I mean, truly you are, we are.
Each of that, just being, that is actually,
in a Buddhist, that is practice, that is Dharma.
It's not something that you're doing on Dharma.
That is the heart of the practices.
Then relax, then meditate.
Calm and physical.
Not thinking, thoughts carried that relax.
Okay, thank you.
Okay, thank you, good, thank you everyone again.
Thank you so much, thank you everyone.
(audience applauds)
Oh, thank you, thank you very much.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Then we do one minute again, calm meditation
and then dedicate one phrase in this text.
(audience applauds)
(wind blows)
Okay, and we have this text.
I'm spooklet page 14 and seven, number seven.
We join this.
(audience applauds)
The precious body jetta, in those without it,
may it be generated.
In those who have it, may it never be demolished.
But always, the continuation.
(gentle music)
Thank you everyone, thank you.
Thank you very much everyone.
Thank, okay, thank you, thank you.
Thank you, thank you everyone.
Thank you, thank you.
(wind blows)
(speaking in foreign language)
- Thank you very much for being here.
I know that this, your visit brings a lot of joy
to everyone in this world.
Thank you so much, Lema Lorraine.
It's a pleasure to have you here with us today.
I'd like to share with you that Kenpo will be joining us
next Sunday, and will join us for book discussion again.
So please join us.
I also like to mention that we have begun
the registration for the winter retreat.
The beautiful flyer is outside
as well as the registration form.
For those of you interested in attending,
if you do it, you register before January 30th,
we will have a 30 dollar discount available for you.
December 30th, that is, if you register before December 30th,
there is a 30 dollar discount in the registration.
We also have a lot of people who come from out of town,
and if you're fortunate enough to have a space
in your home for--